CS2015 Lab 8 : Huffman Coder/Decoder and Files

Thursday 3rd December 2014

A coder/decoder (codec) is a piece of software that can encode
or decode a stream of data. The goal of this lab is to construct
a codec that can compress plain text files using Huffman coding,
and decode compressed files back to plain text.

In lab 7 you constructed a program that computes Huffman codes for
each of the 256 characters based on the frequency of each character in
a given "training" file. In the current lab you will extend this
program to a Huffman codec using the codes computed from your code in
lab 7.

It should be possible to invoke your program in two ways:
huffcode <training filename> <input filename> <output filename>
huffdecode <training filename> <input filename> <output filename>

The training file is used to provide character frequency information
that can be used to build the Huffman tree. When your program is
invoked with the name "huffcode" the input file is a plain text file,
and the program should output an encoded file. When your program is
invoked with the name "huffdecode" the input file is a Huffman coded
file, and the program should output the corresponding plain text file.

Note that Huffman encoding involves taking a character set with
fixed-length codes (the C character set) and generating a file
where different characters have different lengths. It will therefore
be necessary to pack individual bits into bytes, and the boundary
of any character in the Huffman coded file will only coincide with
a byte boundary by chance.

In order to deal with this problem, construct an abstract datatype
that represents a file that allows a single bit to be read from or
written to the file. The C programming language does not allow reads
or writes of less than one byte, and therefore you will need to create
a buffer that temporarily stores individual bits that will have
recently been read from the C file but not yet used, or recently
written to the abstract data type file, but have not yet been flushed
to the C file.

Note that when Huffman encoding, you need some way to indicate the
end of the file. There are several different ways that this can be
done, and you should clearly document your solution.

For testing the code we will be using the following file:
https://www.cs.tcd.ie/David.Gregg/cs2014/labs/modern-prometheus.unix.txt


